When you look at policing, when you’re new to
it, the recommendations, like: they need to
live in the communities where they’re policing,
we need more queer people as police officers,
training is going to improve things, that’s
pretty typical for folks who are, kind of,
new to thinking about this, and that was, by
and large, the feedback that I was getting.
And I’m not surprised because it was 2005.
I’d be surprised if I got the same feedback
now because I think people now understand
that actually it doesn’t really matter
if more of them are queer. It doesn’t really
matter if they live in your neighbourhood or
have training up the yin yang. It doesn’t really
matter. The recommendations around strip search,
I was not surprised by that either, and they make
sense to me as a way going forward. You know,
trans-identified folks had many more actual
carceral experiences with police than the
general public, so they weren’t speaking
theoretically. They were speaking, “Okay,
if you’re going to search me, it needs to happen
this way.” I mean, we were asking them, you know,
“What’s the best way to do this?” So, we weren’t
getting a lot of, “Don’t ever do it.” Right?
There’s an acceptance on the part of the oppressed
that the oppression is going to keep happening,
but I was happy that people were articulating that
any cavity search is a sexual assault because that
needs to be said over, and over, and over again.
Like, strip searching inherently is assaultive;
it’s sexual violence. That came out from what
people responded, and I’m glad that it did.
And around the bar owner stuff, again, it was...
It’s all very practical. Very, “We accept that
we need to be accountable to the Liquor Control
Board Act.” Those folks were pissed off, though,
at the interference in their business because, you
know, I’m interpreting now, but they’re invested
in capitalism. They’re business owners, and
a lot of them aren’t even queer particularly,
and it’s like, “What the hell’s going on here?
Why is this happening to us?” Reading through
the report, I was having to remind myself, this
is what people told you, Anna, so it’s not your
opinion. And I’m trying to think, in 2005, what my
opinion would have been. I think I had an analysis
at that point that more training isn’t going to
do it, and having more LGBTQ officers isn’t going
to do it. I think that my analysis at that time
would have been more, for lack of a better word,
radical. It would have been more on the
abolition... You know, towards that. Right?